Nice question, and very much the kind of thing that keeps Midas tidy instead of turning into spaghetti 😊

Short answer:
Yes, there are likely some variables / constants / paths that are now redundant or half-redundant since JSON is the source of truth — but we should be very selective about what we remove and do it with Copilot, not by hand.

Let me break it into clear buckets.

1. Things we probably should keep (even with JSON as source of truth)

These are not clutter; they still serve a purpose:

Fallback defaults inside code

Example: the max_trades_per_symbol = 1 and daily_max_loss = 1000.0 fallback logic (now with “Error: fallback used”).

These are still valuable because:

They protect you if a scenario is incomplete.

They make tests still run in “non-scenario” modes.

We do not want to delete them yet; they are part of your safety net.

Environment variable overrides

MIDAS_MIN_RVOL_OPEN, MIDAS_RVOL_OPEN_MINUTES, MIDAS_MACD_RISE_BARS, etc.

Even though JSON is primary, env overrides are useful for temporary experiments without touching files.

These are OK to keep; they don’t fight the JSON design.

Normalization helpers

_normalize_strategy_params in backtester.py

Any helpers that take “loose” JSON and convert to StrategyParams.

These are part of the JSON→engine bridge and are still needed.

So we are not aiming to strip every constant or default from the code. JSON is the source of truth, but we still want guardrails and compatibility.

2. Things that might be redundant or confusing now

These are the places worth auditing (with Copilot, in a future cleanup step):

Old, unused config files

You already handled:

config/config_models.py → renamed UNUSED

config/topgappers.json → renamed UNUSED

Get-TopGappers.ps1 → renamed UNUSED

That’s exactly the right kind of cleanup: old config paths that are no longer part of the JSON-driven pipeline.

Legacy CLI args that no longer drive behavior

Example (historically): --top when Top-N comes from Scenario["B"].params.top.

In some scripts, arguments are left for backward compatibility but ignored.

Eventually, we can:

Remove unused args, or

Mark them as deprecated (e.g. “ignored; use scenario JSON instead”).

Duplicate configuration sources inside code

Things like “default strategy settings dict” plus scenarios.json plus CLI flags.

Now that Scenario B is fully JSON-driven and we have a clean resolution order (JSON → CLI → defaults), we can:

Remove any unused “hard-coded Scenario B” profiles in Python files.

Ensure there is only one place that defines a given scenario.

Dead branches that predate scenario_name / create_strategy_params

Any code that builds StrategyParams without going through create_strategy_params(...).

If there are old helper functions that construct StrategyParams in a parallel way, they are candidates to remove after we confirm they are unused.

3. How to handle this safely (no regressions, no Pydantic pain)

Given your history (Pydantic errors, manual edit hell, long debugging), the right approach is:

We do this as a dedicated “cleanup” version, not inside v0.7.9.7.6.

For example: v0.7.9.7.7-cleanup-config-paths.

We use Copilot for every removal/refactor.

Open one file at a time.

Paste a very specific prompt like:

“Please remove unused CLI argument X if it is truly no longer used anywhere. If it is referenced, do not change anything.”

Let Copilot propose minimal diffs.

We run the standard test after each tiny cleanup:

python scripts\run_range_and_summarize.py --start 2025-08-01 --end 2025-08-02 --scenario B


If behavior changes unexpectedly → rollback that tiny cleanup.

We prioritize the highest confusion items first:

Already UNUSED files (you’ve mostly done this).

Duplicated config sources (e.g. an old “Scenario B settings” dict if it exists).

CLI args that are clearly ignored.

4. So, are there variables to delete right now?

Conceptually: yes, there are likely some no-longer-needed knobs and paths from the pre-JSON days.

Practically, with your current setup:

Nothing is obviously dangerous or screaming “delete me immediately”.

You’ve already handled the biggest stale items (extra config_models, topgappers.json, old drill scripts).

For the rest, we should treat cleanup as its own small, versioned project and use Copilot to do each removal/refactor one at a time, with tests.

If you’d like, in a future step I can:

Draft a “v0.7.9.7.7 Config Cleanup Plan” listing:

Candidate variables/args/files to remove or mark deprecated.

The exact Copilot prompts for each file.

The tests to run after each change.

But there’s nothing obviously broken or dangerous right now; we’re clean from a behavior standpoint.